# Dendritic-Cell-Algorithms-MATLAB

Dendritic cell algorithm is a relatively recent approach in machine learning which got its inspiration from the function of the immune system using dendritic cells. It uses danger theory in which the immune response on natural systems senses corruption as well as sensing unknown substances. Danger theory has some properties which makes it a suitable model for intrusion detection system. Properties such as dynamical system, evolutionary algorithms, immune memory, natural computation and optimization (Ying-Tan , 2016). In 2005, Greensmith et al designed and implemented the DCA for intrusion detection according to the mechanism of dendritic cell of HIS (Xufei & Yonghui, 2012). The DCA has also been successfully applied to many computer security issues such as port scan detection and botnet detection (Yousof, Uwe, s& Julie, 2010). It is also a good classifier for a static machine learning dataset and anomaly detection for real-time port scan detection (Greensmith, U Aickelin, Cayzer 2005). Scaling issues, generation of excessive undesirable false positives and detector coverage has also made DCA a better candidate in anomaly detection problem (Xufei & Yonghui, 2012). Robustness and self-organization has also make DCA more sophisticated than NSA and also better than clonal selection due to high rate of false negatives generation issues (Julie et al, 2005).
 The DCA has three phase which are initialization, update and aggregation. The initialization deals with setting all the parameters.  Followed by update stage which can be decomposed into tissue update and cell cycle. Lastly, the aggregation phase begins when all the gathered antigen is subsequently analyzed and the MCAV is obtained by antigen. (Julie et al., 2007). DCA has some significant drawback by relying on user expert to identify the parameter values as well as mapping the raw information into suitable DCA outputs that are antigens and signals. (Chris, in 2010).
